Comparison (#23)
lisds/project-daylight-robbery: comparison.Rmd

Reviewer: Can you go through and change where you've used `code_snippets` to __bold__ or _italic_?

Obviously you can use code snippet but only for code e.g. `data.ward`

ward_lsoa_df = ward_lsoa_diff.to_frame('difference')

ward_lsoa_df.head(15)
```

This dataframe shows the differences in the `lsoa` and `ward` datasets. Similar to the two previous dataframes, the seven highest differences are pretty much the same. The only difference is that the differences are a lot lower.

This seems to suggest that if a crime is recorded at the ward level, it is very likely to be recorded at the LSOA level too.

```{python}
ward_lsoa_diff.sum()
```

The total difference in recorded crimes between the `lsoa` and `ward` datasets is `3896.0`

Overall, there is very little consistency in the recorded crimes across the dataset. As such, the `borough` dataset should be used for analysis of the data when looking at seasonal changes, as it is more accurate.

### Comparing the same offence by borough

```{python}
pd.DataFrame(data.borough.loc[:, 'Arson', :].T.groupby(level='year').sum().sum())
```

The above dataframe shows the total number of Arson offences across the entirety of the `borough` dataset.

```{python}

> pd.DataFrame(((data.borough.loc[:, 'Arson', :].T.groupby(level='year').sum().sum()) - (data.ward.loc[:, :, :, 'Arson', :].groupby(level=[3]).sum().T.sum())).sort_values(ascending=False))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
borough_arson = (data.borough
                     .loc[:, 'Arson', :]
                     .T
                     .groupby(level='year')
                     .sum()
                     .sum())
ward_arson = (data.ward
                  .loc[:, :, :, 'Arson', :]
                  .groupby(level=[3])
                  .sum()
                  .T
                  .sum())

pd.DataFrame((borough_arson - ward_arson).sort_values(ascending=False))
```

```

The above data frame shows the difference in reported Arson offences between the `borough` and `ward` datasets.

It seems that there is more reports made in the `borough` dataset consistently, other than in Hillingdon. One possible explanation for this is that the `borough` dataset contains a `London Heathrow and London City Airports` borough, which the `ward` dataset does not.

Heathrow Airport is in the Hillingdon borough and London City Airport is in Newham. This means that the Arson offences are being split between these two boroughs, leading to less reports in the `borough` dataset compared to the ward dataset for the Hillingdon and Newham boroughs.

The `ward` dataset does include a `Aviation Security (SO18)` borough, however. This is in reference to the Heathrow Airport.

```{python}

> borhil = (data.borough.loc[:, 'Arson', ['Newham', 'Hillingdon']].T.groupby(level='year').sum().T.sum()).to_frame('Arson')
> halca = (data.borough.loc[:, 'Arson', 'London Heathrow and London City Airports'].T.groupby(level='year').sum())
> wardhil = (data.ward.loc[:, :, :, 'Arson', ['Newham','Hillingdon','Aviation Security (SO18)']].sum().T.groupby(level='year').sum()).to_frame('Arson Offences')
> ((borhil['Arson'] + halca['Arson and Criminal Damage']) - wardhil['Arson Offences']).sum()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bor_hillingdon = ((data.borough
                       .loc[:, 'Arson', ['Newham', 'Hillingdon']]
                       .T
                       .groupby(level='year')
                       .sum()
                       .T
                       .sum())
                       .to_frame('Arson'))
    
bor_heathrow_londoncity = (data.borough
                               .loc[:, 'Arson', 'London Heathrow and London City Airports']
                               .T
                               .groupby(level='year')
                               .sum())

ward_hillingdon = ((data.ward
                        .loc[:, :, :, 'Arson', ['Newham','Hillingdon','Aviation Security (SO18)']]
                        .sum()
                        .T
                        .groupby(level='year')
                        .sum())
                        .to_frame('Arson Offences'))

((bor_hillingdon['Arson'] + bor_heathrow_londoncity['Arson and Criminal Damage']) - ward_hillingdon['Arson Offences']).sum()
```

```

The above data frame is of all the Arson offences in the `borough` dataset in the `Hillingdon` and `Newham` boroughs.

The above data frame is of all the Arson offences in the `borough` dataset in the `London Heathrow and London City Airports` borough.

The above dataframe is of all the Arson offences in the `ward` dataset in the `Hillingdon` and `Newham` boroughs.

The above code adds together the records of arson in `Hillingdon`, `Newham` and `London Heathrow and London City Airports` (`borough` dataset) and takes away the records from the `ward` dataset for `Hillingdon`, `Newham` and `Aviation Security (SO18)` borough.

This leaves a difference of `12.0`.

This means that there is more reports in the `borough` dataset than the `ward` dataset.

```{python}

> borhil1 = (data.borough.loc[:, 'Arson', 'Hillingdon'].T.groupby(level='year').sum().T.sum()).to_frame('Arson')
> halca1 = (data.borough.loc[:, 'Arson', 'London Heathrow and London City Airports'].T.groupby(level='year').sum())
> wardhil1 = (data.ward.loc[:, :, :, 'Arson', ['Hillingdon','Aviation Security (SO18)']].sum().T.groupby(level='year').sum()).to_frame('Arson Offences')
> ((borhil1['Arson'] + halca1['Arson and Criminal Damage']) - wardhil1['Arson Offences']).sum()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
bor_hillingdon1 = ((data.borough
                        .loc[:, 'Arson', 'Hillingdon']
                        .T
                        .groupby(level='year')
                        .sum()
                        .T
                        .sum())
                        .to_frame('Arson'))

ward_hillingdon1 = ((data.ward
                         .loc[:, :, :, 'Arson', ['Hillingdon','Aviation Security (SO18)']]
                         .sum()
                         .T
                         .groupby(level='year')
                         .sum())
                         .to_frame('Arson Offences'))

((bor_hillingdon1['Arson'] + bor_heathrow_londoncity['Arson and Criminal Damage']) - ward_hillingdon1['Arson Offences']).sum()
```
